Dr. Abbott. What made him so, what were his
character that made him such an outstanding
teacher? Well, he just made things so
interesting. I remember the first course I had
under Dr. Abbott was Logic and Argumentation.
And he would have us read articles and Harper's
Magazine or other magazines. And he said, come
prepared to
talk about it. And we knew we should read that
article and think about it because he was going to
call on us. He just, he just imparted information
into us and made us think, made us talk. And was just
a great teacher. Dr. Bill
Potts,
chemistry, was one of my great teachers there, I
recall very well. He was just a very easy going man
that, he didn't lecture, Tom Harrington and
Colonel Brighton lectured to us, but Dr. Bill
Potts was our lab teacher and our classroom
teacher in chemistry, and he was outstanding. If
you had any questions, he wouldn't just go over
subjects and say, I want you to understand this.
We're going over it until everybody in this class
understands
what we're talking about. And he was awfully good.
Others were Pembroke,
Dean Pembroke, he was head of the Bureau. And he was
very impressive and very good, had a good
relationship
with the students. Mr. Angel, Lionel Angel, he was
more or less the, he would have been more or less
student activities. Joe Skiles, who at that time
was a plunder Mr. H in the student activities. Of
course, I did a lot of work with the student
activities because I was kind of one of the leaders
of the class.
Military people. What about over in business?
Over in business, okay. Tom Cherry.
Pop Weinke was an accountant. Stubbs,
B-Bow, Harley B-Bow, they were all in Hagee Co. Tom
Cherry was in Hagee Co. Mr. Wheeler-Martin was
head of the department, but I never did head as a
teacher. Mr., I'll tell you somebody who was a good
teacher also was head of the department, was Mr.
Leland. Mr. Leland was a good teacher. We had very
caring faculty. What about advisors,
counselors, if you needed advice on something?
Well, I don't remember any counselor that I had
other than professors. But I had no problem going
to any of my teachers. They were always there and
their door was always open. I think if there's
anything good about A&M in those days, it was the
faculty. What were the, without there being
written down, what did you and your fellow
students assume were the guidelines for
classroom behavior, the rules about going to
class? Well, of course we wore uniforms, and they
were clean. One thing about this college, they had
that college law, and there was no excuse for you to
go around dirty. And the students wouldn't let you
be dirty. They'd make you take a shower. If you
didn't, they'd see that you had a shower.
The classrooms in those days, the students were
timely. They were respectful. They were
courteous. They were polite. And for the most
part, they were very attentive.
Any crowd that you'd get into, every once in a while
you'd get somebody that was either combative or a
little out of line, but that was the exception. Do
you remember any kind of pranks or tricks or good
bull happening in a classroom?
Well, I'm sure it happened all the time.
anybody ever put anything under the lectern?
Well, I remember they uh, what did they do? They uh,
Mr. uh, Dr. uh, D.B. Colford.
Uh, somebody had gone in there and said, D.B.
Colford. D.B. stands for Dusty Butt. I wrote that
on the board. What was his reaction? He was the
cutest thing in the world. He turned and said, I may
be a dusty bug, but I'm not a dusty brain like
somebody who wrote this on his blackboard. Very
good. He was so good. And there were other things
like that, but right now, you know, it's just...
All right, let's go to the run-through, Mom. Let's
go to the dormitories then. Can you remember some
good bowl- Yeah, a lot of good bowl dormitories.
Share some of that. Well, I was in C Company and we
had a sophomore who was giving us hell all the time
named Ruben Caperton, best little boy in the
world. He was from Sterling City, a year ahead of
me. He was living up on the I guess it was the second
floor of Goodman Hall. You know, to get to the first
floor of Goodman Hall, you had to go up about five
steps. And somebody knew where an old cow was. And
we got together, and Reuben had gone somewhere. He
was gonna be gone for about an hour or two. And
somebody said, come on, we gotta go get this cow.
You know, I wasn't a stranger to cows. We had cows
when I was growing up pretty much. I said, OK, what
are we going to do with that cow? And they wouldn't
tell us. OK, we'll go get the cow. So we went. I guess
somewhere around the dairy, we got this cow. It was
a dorsal cow. It was not much problem. It had horns.
We got that cow. And we got him up to the second
floor. We got him into that room. And we dressed the
head of that cow up. We tied a lot of old Rubens
underwear around it, all that damn stuff. And we
all hid up there around
the corner from his room. He came in, and here he
was. And he opened that door, and you could hear him
scream and holler from all over the country. And of
course, after the good bull went off, we had to get
the damn cow back down to the shed. We had a hell of a
lot of trouble getting it down, and we did. And then
there was the old trick, you know, of the ketchup.
There's an old guy, I guess he worked for the
college, living on F&D Road. He had a good looking
daughter.
The trick was, the thing was,
well, this gal, she was having a lot of good sex. You
didn't go see her. You didn't go see her. This was
the whole thing. They'd pull over there. They
would knock on the door. They'd get close to it.
Someone would say, hey, you better run. Here comes
Mr. So-and-so. This old man would run. Here this
other guy was that was set up. Somebody shot a gun
somewhere nearby. This guy fell. And he had a
little thing to catch him. And he spread that
ketchup all over his chest. And he went back like
that. And then they brought the guy up that was set
up to look. Well, Haskell's been killed.
And that went on a lot of times, that kind of stuff.
What about water in the dormitory? A lot of
flooding out. A lot of flooding out. Normally, who
was the most likely victim of the flooding?
Juniors and seniors. Why? What did they do? Well,
they did something back in their younger, earlier
days. For example, I got flooded out my senior
year. So this was a delayed... It was a delayed
thing. Of a delayed payment. Yeah. Now, we had a...
Darcy and... And Jack Henderson had a running feud
with some people over at the Kenmore Fair. And it
started out with red ants. They said, now, y'all
got to get us about five fruit jars full of red ants.
So we hustled five or six fruit jars. and we stole
some honey and syrup out of the mess hall. We didn't
have any fire ants in those days, you know, but we
went around and found these big red fire ant
things, and we'd pour some of that ketchup or that
honey around them, or stick that honey down in
those jars, and those damn things, they loved the
little red ants, and we'd put the cap on a bunch of
holes in them. and would collect about five or six
of those things and take over and put in the room
with these boys over there in the Kemp Water Fair.
Take the lids off? Take the lids off and let them,
then the, those boys over there, they were pretty
good at chemistry. And they mixed up a solution of
what they call skatole. I don't know whether you
know what that is. It's a concentrated shit. And
they came over to Jack and Dorsey's room and they
put that skatole down in the beds, you know, iron
and they had open ends. They put that stuff down in
there and they put it in the most god awful places.
Can you recall any of those tricks or pranks which
in fact harmed
anybody? I don't
know anybody ever
getting hurt. Do you know of university property
being damaged very much? I wasn't in glasses
broken. We went over to Ross Hall and took toe sacks
and collected the bats and chimney sweeps. Nobody
heard from that. We put those bats and chimney
sweeps in one of those rooms. And by and large, the
people that deserve to have a trick played on them
deserve it. Yeah. And vice versa. And then they got
it back. I mean, it was give and take. Now, the
drownouts. How did the water get there? Well, we
all had wastebaskets about this big. And we had a
lot of toilet paper. What we'd do is make up a
solution of water and toilet paper all squashed
together. A combination of wet paper and water.
And, for example, Dorsey and Jack had this fellow
named Divine that came to visit, like the man who
came to dinner. He came to visit in their room, and
he was on the top floor, top bunk. And he stayed
about two months. He didn't have a job. He didn't
have anything to eat. He was marching the mess hall
just like all the students. He wasn't wearing
khakis and khaki shirts. And Darcy and Jack just
got tired of him. You know, they said, y'all got to
float him out. Just float him out tonight. We're
not going to be there. He'll be asleep. You just
float him out. So we mixed up about two wastebanks
full of water and told them to leave. And Bill ended
it. And we had a kid over there. He slipped in and he
was asleep. I hit him right on the head with that
bucket of water. And Bill... Hammocks hit him
right down here. And of course he ran and he flushed
and flurried around there for a while and sure
enough in two or three days he checked out and left.
What about, did y'all ever make, we used to call
them babble bombs. I never did make a babble bomb. I
put firecrackers in toilet paper, yeah. Yeah,
that was done around a lot, but I never did do that.
But it was done. Right. Now, where did you and your
buddies go on a Saturday night after the movie for a
good time? Hardlickers. Hardlickers. We walked
to Hardlickers. Okay. This was normally all mail.
All mail. And what did you all do there? Well, those
of us who could buy beer would buy Southern Select
or grand prize beer. Now what, you've said those
who could. Yeah. What did Mr. Hurdlek, did he
check? From time to time he would check. Ages?
Yeah, ages, yeah. Did anybody get drunk? Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, there was some time. Then you
always have to help them get back, help them get
back. That was the number one place to go, more or
less, off campus. Except the movie house. And that
was by and large, almost everybody in there was
medieval. Yeah. Were there any people in there
except Aggie? On the weekends, not very many. A few
of the Bohemians around would come. Those that did
a lot of beer drinking would come in. But on
weekends, there were gals. that would come in here
for the dances, like the sophomore ball, or the
junior ball, or the senior ball, or the infantry
ball, or the artillery ball, and after the, after
the, all the social functions there, they'd end up
out, and they had a jukebox. And they had a little
dance floor. Uh, would there, were there ever any
fights? Uh, there were some fights, But not as many
as you think. And where could you buy whiskey and so
forth? You could buy whiskey at what we call Jones
Bridge. Highway 60. Okay. Go out across the Brazos
River. Y'all called it Jones Bridge. Jones
Bridge. Because later it would be Whiskey Bridge.
Yeah, yeah. Jones Bridge. Just across the river on
the north? On the right. Okay. Okay. You go across
the river, and on the right, they had that old
bridge there, old iron bridge. Just as soon as you
got across that old iron bridge, back on the right
was Mr. Dunn had a bootlegger store. Did they check
carefully on ages? No, they didn't care. And it was
legal to sell whiskey in that county? Yes, it was
legal. This was not bootlegged, it was legal to.
And normally the whiskey was it drunk straight or
mixed with what? It was mixed usually with
Coca-Cola. Yeah, Coca-Cola and bourbon was
usually what it was. Then a little later on in my
senior year it was rum and Coca-Cola and lemon.
But It wasn't, we'd have people go and they'd
bootleg, you know, they'd say, well, I'll bring
you a bottle of so-and-so, but I charge you 50
cents. Excuse me, I gotta go. Okay.
Talking about alcohol, did a student bring
whiskey, a bottle of whiskey back to the dorm, put
it in his room? We didn't keep whiskey around in our
dorm rooms, really. What was the official policy
if anybody did? I think it was against the rules to
have any alcoholic beverage in your dorm room, and
so we made a point not to have it around. Matter of
fact, my friend Billy Merrill from Greenville was
one of the few people that had a car down here in the
early days, and what little booze we had, we kept it
locked up in the trunk of his car. We didn't display
any Y'all went to
the clay pits? Yes. No, no, no. The clay pits was
something new to me when I came back here. Oh,
that's after the war. That's after the war. Yes. So
there was... The clay pits was not around in my era.
So there was no place that y'all had just to kind of
go out in peace and quiet and talk or... Well, we
used to do a lot of walking and playing around at
what we called the Fish Lake. I'll tell you where it
was. It was out around Eastwood. They had a couple
of ponds over there, one of them they drained. But
we used to go over there Sunday morning after we
went to Sunday school. We'd go over there, three or
four of us, and we would strip down to our birthday
suit and swim in those lakes over there. The
diversity of the student body. Almost all the
students had a nickname? Most of them had
nicknames, yeah. Most of them had nicknames they
brought in from high school. But then others got
nicknames after they got here. There were some
Hispanic students here when you were here. Yes.
Did any of them have Hispanic nicknames? Yes.
Were they treated as equals? Oh, yes. We had boys
from Mexico and Puerto Rico and Honduras and my
company, Mexico City, and they were treated just
like everybody else. What about Jewish? Yes, we
had Jewish. And they were treated just as equal.
Did they ever have nicknames? Yes. Was anybody
called Jew Boy? No. Oh. Two or three have told me
they were, but they did not consider to put them.
No. Mervyn Hoffman was in my company. And Mervyn
was always Mervyn. We had, we didn't have a lot of
Jewish boys, but the Jewish boys were treated as
what was in the manual, not manual, but Manny
Rosenthal, who gave the Rosenthal, was editor of
our battalion. We called him Manny. Mike Hyken
from Houston, who was a PR man in Houston. We just
called him Mike.
Aaron Rich from San Antonio was Aaron.
The
other San Antonio boys. But the Jewish boys were
not large in number, but they were very well
accepted. Generalize, if you can, generalize
about the student body. Where did they come from
then? Country, towns, big cities, or what? The
student body in those days, my generation, came
from all over Texas, primarily the small
towns. They were not necessarily from the big
towns, but they were from just widespread. Rich or
poor? Rich and poor. Rich and poor. Did it matter?
It didn't matter. It didn't matter. What did
matter then for this kind of general acceptance of
everybody? What was the key to that? Well,
leadership. Leadership. The young men who could
command,
who could inspire,
they were here, you know. You could just find them.
Tom Gillis, Tom Ritchie,
men that were true leaders. You know if you're a
good leader in high school, Or junior high, you're
a good leader in high school, you're a good leader
in college, you're a good leader in life. And those
people, we had plenty of them. Even though we had a
lot of students from small towns. The students
were the cream of the crop in Texas colleges. I
asked this question of Sam Walton one time. As you
look back, did many of your classmates surprise
you by the capability you thought they had and what
they did with that capability? Did many fail?
You're saying some did? No, no, I'm listening to
you. No, I was wondering. No, what I'm saying is a
leader is a leader in Jody. The leaders we had in our
class were known to be leaders in the war. went on to
be leaders professionally or in business. That's
what I was expecting. And I'll tell you this, I
don't know of any, but I guess there were some who
did fail, but for other reasons, alcohol or
marriage or something else. But by and large, the
boys that were the leaders in the Corps, the cadet
colonels and the majors and the outfitmen,
company commanders. They were leaders, and
they're still leaders. Alright, let's see.
Smoking was comparatively common? Smoking was
something, as a non-smoker, for me at that time, I
didn't pay any attention to smoking, really. But
I'm sure My roommate, Whit Stockton, was a smoker,
because I remember him carrying those green Lucky
Strikes around with him. But, you know, I don't
think we had too many smokers in those days. Where
could they and could they not smoke? They could
smoke anywhere they wanted to, except in class.
They couldn't smoke in class. Or the dining hall.
They couldn't smoke in the dining hall, but they
could smoke in their rooms. Other tobacco, did
anybody chew? Oh, yes. Yes, there were a lot of
people who chewed tobacco. Snuff? They'd snuff
and roll their own. They had these little, what do
you call them, ready rolls. And they had them in
their dorm rooms, and they'd say, hey, come over
here, I want you to help me make a bunch of
cigarettes. And we'd get in there and get
everything set up where they'd put that tobacco,
put those little cigarette papers in there and
start rolling. What did y'all know about
marijuana then? Didn't know one thing about
marijuana. Had you heard the word? Not that I know
of. Cocaine, of course, no. No, I don't... I don't
remember. The worst thing about like that that we
saw was every once in a while we'd have an epileptic
situation and some kids would have an epileptic
fit. Well for us that was like being having a drug
attack because we didn't understand it. And we had
a few kids that we came to know as being epileptic.
And you know, we thought that was something
terrible. We didn't understand that it was a
medical problem. Getting dates. Where did the
young man get a date? Well, most of the dates were
gotten by being brought in from home town. And
there wasn't any place to put them because there
wasn't enough motels in this area. We'd walk
around the campus, the perimeter of the campus,
and knock on doors and talk to some faculty
member's wife and say, can you keep my girlfriend
for next Saturday? And that's the way we found the
department. Would there be even an offer to pay
that faculty member? Oh, yes, that was the one. Did
they normally accept it? Yes, they did accept it.
It was, yes, you paid so much it was very minimal.
Did you have some dates like that? Yes. And came
here on the train? Came down here on the train or in a
car with somebody. From where? Well, one that I had
come down came from Greenville in a private car
with other girls. And another one I had came from
TSCW on the bus. How did you meet her? The one that
came from TSCW was my cousin by marriage, Harriet
Jarrett. And she lived in Lubbock, but she went to
TSCW. She had me up then two or three times. I had her
down here for one day or something. And we, there
were three or four of those girls in the same group,
and I got them a room in J.D. Pruitt's over. Now, is
the rumor, the old legend correct that sometimes
an Aggie wrote a blind date letter to a test seat
using the same box number that he had? Yeah, yeah,
that was so. Did the Tassie's, before the war, did
they come down here as a group? They came down here
in buses. For a certain weekend? Yeah. Okay. Yeah,
for different weekends. Did that have a name or
anything? That weekend? No, because it depended
on what the big occasion was here. For example, if
it was a senior ring dance, then the seniors would
have to come down in a bus. And they would stay as
many as they could in the old Aggieland Inn. And
they couldn't accommodate them there while
they'd just stay at homes and so forth. Infantry
ball would be another occasion that gals from TSCW
would come on invitation from the boys in the same
infantry. Now big social occasions, but cotton
ball? Cotton ball. The ring dance. Senior ring
dance. What else? Freshman, sophomore, junior,
senior dances. Oh, okay. Then there was the
infantry ball, the field artillery ball, the
coastal artillery ball, the cavalry ball, the
signet, the chem warfare and signal corps. See,
all of those had balls. Normally held in? In
Subusa. Subusa. Do you remember some of the great
musical organizations? Oh, yes. Russ Morgan,
Duke Ellington, Boyd Rayburn, the All Girl
Orchestra, what was it? Phil Spitalny? No, the All
Girl was something else. I can't call it now, but
she brought her All Girl Orchestra. I can't come up
with it. I
had a program somewhere
here. Yeah, here it is. Somebody gave this to me and
the others not too long ago. Spencer Baines, class
of 42, A&M
Junior Bank Group. Oh, my goodness. That's what
they looked like. Yeah, yeah. And at every ball,
It's Lou Brees. Lou Brees. B-R-E-E-S-E. Yeah, Lou
Brees. Class officer, J.B. Hervey, historian.
Yeah, there's all of them. They're in the
committee. Now, at one of these, if it was the
junior, were members of the other classes
allowed, or was this for juniors only? No,
it was primarily for juniors only. but a certain
number of the sophomores that were leaders came
too.